Question 1. Write short note on Process Life cycle ?
Process life cycle in OS is one of the five states in which a process can be starting from the time it has been submitted for execution,
till the time when it has been executed by the system.
A process can be in any of the following states – New state. Ready state. Running state.
And the life-cycle of a process can be described by a state diagram which has states representing the execution status of the,
process at various times and transitions that represent changes in execution status.
The operating system maintains management information about a process in a process control block (PCB).

Question 2. What role does an operating system perform. ?
An operating system has three main functions:
(1) manage the computer's resources, such as the central processing unit, memory, disk drives, and printers,
(2) establish a user interface, and 
(3) execute and provide services for applications software.
An operating system (OS) is system software that manages computer hardware,
software resources,and provides common services for computer programs.

Question 3. What is a process ?
A process is basically a program in execution. 
The execution of a process must progress in a sequential fashion. 
A process is defined as an entity which represents the basic unit of work to be implemented in the system
In computing, a process is the instance of a computer program that is being executed by one or many threads.
Depending on the operating system (OS), 
a process may be made up of multiple threads of execution that execute instructions concurrently.
And a process is basically a program in execution.
The execution of a process must progress in a sequential fashion.
A process is defined as an entity which represents the basic unit of work to be implemented in the system.

Question 4. What is the job of a long term scheduler ?
Long Term Scheduler
A long-term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing.
It selects processes from the queue and loads them into memory for execution. Process loads into the memory for CPU scheduling.
And a long-term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing.
 It selects processes from the queue and loads them into memory for execution.
 Process loads into the memory for CPU scheduling.
When a process changes the state from new to ready, then there is use of long-term scheduler.

Question 5. What is Response time.
Response time is the total amount of time it takes to respond to a request for service.
That service can be anything from a memory fetch,
to a disk IO, to a complex database query,
or loading a full web page.